# Welcome to the OER of Scholarly Communication Librarianship project repo!

1. Overview: 

This is a repo to collect materials and resources related to the project working titled OER of Scholarly Communication Librarianship, or OER of Scholcomm. OER is an acronym for Open Educational Resource/s, which the Hewlett Foundation defines as "teaching, learning, and research resources that reside in the public domain or have been released under an intellectual property license that permits their free use and re-purposing by others." Scholarly communication is "the system through which research and other scholarly writings are created, evaluated for quality, disseminated to the scholarly community, and preserved for future use. The system includes both formal means of communication, such as publication in peer-reviewed journals, and informal channels, such as electronic listservs” (Association of College & Research Libraries, “Principles and Strategies for the Reform of Scholarly Communication 1,” 2003). Scholarly Communication Librarians typically work in academic libraries on relevant topics such as copyright and fair use, author's rights, issues related to publishing, library publishing, support for open access, institutional reposotories, open educational resources, and many other issues that relate to these issues and the definition above. As the system of scholarly communication is quickly evolving, scholarly communication librarianship changes rapidly. As such, the list above is not a complete inventory of our work, and in fact this project will never be complete or represent the experience of all librarians and other professionals working in the scholarly communication space. That is why openness is so important to the project. It is open so that it can evolve with the profession through collaboration and self-determination.
